Learning standards (#1)
ben-spector-cc/intermediate-react-rtl: lesson/outline/learning-standards.md

JavaScript, React, Unit Testing

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

- https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/

<hr>

## Installing React Testing Library

### Learning Standard Text

If you are using `create-react-app` to initialize your React project, the React Testing Library (RTL) will already be included. 

To manually install RTL with `npm`, use the following command:

```sh
npm install --save-dev @testing-library/react
```

* Though not required, the `--save-dev` flag will add this library as a development dependency rather than a production dependency.

### Tags

JavaScript, React, Unit Testing

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

- https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/intro/

<hr>

## Installing React Testing Library

### Learning Standard Text

If you are using `create-react-app` to initialize your React project, the React Testing Library (RTL) will already be included. 

To manually install the RTL with `npm`, use the following command (though not required, the `--save-dev` flag will add this library as a development dependency rather than a production dependency):

```sh
npm install --save-dev @testing-library/react
```

> Once installed, values from the RTL can be included in your project by importing them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once installed, RTL can be imported into your project:
```

```js
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react';

import { App } from './App.js'
/* App.js

export const App = () => {
  return (
    <h1>Hello World</h1>
  )
}
*/

it('should render a component', () => {
  render(<App />);
  screen.debug();

  /* 
  Jest Output:
    <body>
      <div>
        <h1>
          Hello World
        </h1>
      </div>
    </body>
  */
});
```

### Tags

JavaScript, React, Unit Testing

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

- https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/example-intro
- https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-testing-library

<hr>

## Querying the Screen

### Learning Standard Text

The `screen` object from the React Testing Library (RTL) provides methods for querying the rendered elements of the DOM in order to make assertions about their text content, attributes, etc....

In this example, the methods `screen.getByText()` and `screen.getByRole()` are used to demonstrate two different ways you can query the DOM for the same element. 

```js
import { render, screen } from '@testing-library/react'

> import '@testing-library/jest-dom';

Reviewer: Pretty sure you don't need to import this manually. The task runner should set up the environment already.

Author: Oh, dang. In our editor you have to do this import :/ You can see the demo [here](https://www.codecademy.com/content-items/70d7400c0ce644ff1339d26065e45f48/exercises/intermediate-react?preview=true)

import { App } from './App.js'
/* App.js

export const App = () => {
  return (
    <h1>Hello World</h1>
  )
}
*/

it('should render a header', () => {
  render(<App />);
  expect(screen.getByText("Hello World")).toBeInTheDocument();
  expect(screen.getByRole("header")).toHaveTextContent("Hello World");
});
```

> The assertion matcher methods `expect('...').toBeInTheDocument()` and `expect('...').toHaveTextContent()` are from the `@testing-library/jest-dom` library. It is common for this library to be used alongside the React Testing Library.

Reviewer: Do learners need to know this?

Author: I suppose this can be removed. Though, remember, learners don't end up seeing these anyway. They are used internally (though are sometimes copied to make review cards).

### Tags

JavaScript, React, Unit Testing

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

- https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/example-intro
- https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-testing-library
- https://testing-library.com/docs/queries/about

<hr>

## Events

### Learning Standard Text

> The `@testing-library/user-event` library is an extension of the `@testing-library` that provides tools for simulating user interactions with the DOM. The provided `userEvent` object and the methods it contains can be used to simulate clicks, typing, and much more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `@testing-library/user-event` library is an extension of `@testing-library` that provides tools for simulating user interactions with the DOM. The provided `userEvent` object and the methods it contains can be used to simulate clicks, typing, and much more.
```

> In this example, the `userEvent.type()` method is used to simulate a user typing the text `'Hello World!'` into the rendrered text box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `userEvent.type()` method is used to simulate a user typing the text `'Hello World!'` into the rendered text box.
```

There are spell checkers for IDEs :p

```js
import React from 'react'
import {render, screen} from '@testing-library/react'
import userEvent from '@testing-library/user-event'
import '@testing-library/jest-dom';

it('should change the text of the input', () => {
  render(<textarea />);

  userEvent.type(screen.getByRole('textbox'), 'Hello World!')
  expect(screen.getByRole('textbox')).toHaveValue('Hello World!')
})
```

### Tags

JavaScript, React, Unit Testing

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

- https://github.com/testing-library/user-event#typeelement-text-options

<hr>

## queryBy* variants

### Learning Standard Text

When using the React Testing Library (RTL) to determine if an element is NOT present in the rendered DOM, the `screen.queryBy*` variants should be used over their `screen.getBy*` counterparts.

> If the queried element produces a null set, the `screen.getBy*` variants will throw an error before the assertion can be made whereas the `screen.queryBy*` variants simply return `null`.

Reviewer: What's a `null set` :p Not everyone has a CS background.

> If the queried element produces a null set, the `screen.getBy*` variants will throw an error before the assertion can be made whereas the `screen.queryBy*` variants simply return `null`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the queried element produces a null set, the `screen.getBy*` variants will throw an error causing the test to fail. `screen.queryBy*` will instead return `null`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If the queried element cannot be found, the `screen.getBy*` variants will throw an error causing the test to fail. `screen.queryBy*` will instead return `null`.
```

In this example, using `screen.getByRole('foobar')` will result in an error and a failing test while using `screen.queryByRole('foobar')` will result in a passing test.

```js
// Assume that there is no element with the role 'foobar'

// getByRole('foobar') will throw an error if no element is found
expect(screen.getByRole('foobar')).toBeNull();

// queryByRole simply returns null if no element is found
expect(screen.queryByRole('foobar')).toBeNull();
```

### Tags

JavaScript, React, Unit Testing

### Additional Notes / Resources Used

- https://testing-library.com/docs/react-testing-library/example-intro
- https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-testing-library
- https://kentcdodds.com/blog/common-mistakes-with-react-testing-library#using-query-variants-for-anything-except-checking-for-non-existence

<hr>

## findBy* variants

### Learning Standard Text

When using the React Testing Library (RTL) to query the rendered DOM for an element that will appear as a result of an asynchronous action (for example, after some API fetch occurs), the `screen.findBy*` variants should be used instead of the `waitFor()` method and the `screen.getBy*` variants.

> In this example, a header with the test `'Goodbye'` will appear after a Promise resolves. While both approaches will accurately find this element, the approach that uses `screen.findByText()` is more concise and can produce better error messages in the event that the element is not found.

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, a header with the text `'Goodbye'` will appear after a Promise resolves. While both approaches will accurately find this element, the approach that uses `screen.findByText()` is more concise and can produce better error messages in the event that the element is not found.

When using the asynchronous `screen.findBy*` variants, the `async` keyword must be used with the test callback function.
```

```js
// Wait for an element with the test 'Goodbye' to appear before proceeding.
const header = await waitFor(() =>
  screen.getByText('Goodbye')
)

// This does the same as above, but more succinctly and with better error logging

> const header = await screen.findByText('Goodbye');

Reviewer: Should we also call out that we need to make the test callback `async`?

Author: Yes! I'll add it in

> ```js
> // Wait for an element with the test 'Goodbye' to appear before proceeding.
> const header = await waitFor(() =>
>   screen.getByText('Goodbye')
> )
> 
> // This does the same as above, but more succinctly and with better error logging
> const header = await screen.findByText('Goodbye');
> ```

Author: ```suggestion
```js
it ('should find an async element', async () => { 
  // Wait for an element with the test 'Goodbye' to appear before proceeding.
  const header = await waitFor(() =>
    screen.getByText('Goodbye')
  )

  // This does the same as above, but more succinctly and with better error logging
  const header = await screen.findByText('Goodbye');
  
  expect(header).toBeInTheDocument();
});
```
```
